# 8-2-Journal-Portfolio-Item
This is the final journal for CS-250

Successfully interpreting user needs and implementing them into a program is one of the most important aspects of any project. The easiest way to successfully implement or even identify desired functions is to ask a group of potential users. This information can then be used to create user stories that will help to guide the development team to the desired results. The development team must communicate with the testers and scrum master if any aspect of the user stories is unclear. It is equally, if not more, important that the user stories are completed with as much detail and clarity as possible; this will save the team time. When developing a program, I am guilty of diving in headfirst with a burst of energy and excitement. I usually have a very general idea of the program's functionality and the final project's desired appearance. (To be fair, everything I develop right now is not for a company) In the future, I would like to set up personal sprint goals for myself, dividing any projects into bite-sized pieces with lots of testing between sprints to ensure everything is working correctly. Implementing this will ensure that I do not reach the finish line with a project that barely functions. Being a good team member in any setting can be quantified to a series of personality traits. Some of which are honesty, sociability, humility, and coachability. No individual needs all of these traits, but it is important (to me) that I understand I do not know everything, and it is okay to be wrong. I need to be coachable to better myself and my effectiveness as a team member. Most importantly, I need to communicate effectively as a team member is I expect my team to be successful.  
